SQL:
It is data manipulation language (DML) that is used to connect with relational databases (RDBMS).

What is Database (DB)?
Basically it is a collection of related information that can be stored in a difference ways
eg: Phonebook,Facebook user base

Computers + databases -> They are great at keeping track of large amount of information.
1.) Keep track of information in a area
2.) This allows trillions of pieces of information can to be stored and  readily available.

Database Management Systems (DBMS):
A special information that helps users to create and maintain dataset. (CRUD) Create Read Update Delete
a.) Makes it east to manage large amount of data
b.) Handles Security
c.) Backups
d.) Importing/exporting data
e.) Concurrency
f.) Interaction with software applications.

Two types of Databases:
1.) Relational Databases -> Organises data in one or more tables
2.) Non-Relational databases -> Organises data is anything but a traditional table

Non Relational Databases:
Organise data into one or more tables
1.) each table has columns and rows
2.) A unique key identifies each row.

eg: mySql,Oracle,PostreSQL,mariaDb

Structured Query language:
It is used for interacting with RDBMS.
Used to perform CRUD operatiosn as well as administatrative tasks (database mgmt,security,backup);
Following things can be accomplished following:
1.) CRUD operatiosn
2.) Create and manage databases
3.) Design and create db tables
4.) Perform administatrative tasks -> (security, import/export)

The code used on One RDBMS is not always portable to another without modification.
The concepts will remain the same.
Database Queries:
They are requests made to DBMS for specific information.

Tables and keys:
Data are arranged in rows and columns
The columns name defines the keys in the table
A row defines the values correspoding to column name. Each row defines a record.
Each row has a unique called primary key. This attribute is used to uniquely define a record in db.

Surrogate key:
It is a primary key that does not have a any meaning in regular world.

Natural key:
It is a primary key created in such a way that it is unique based on a attribute in the database table.
eg: email:

Foriegn key: 
A key that is used to map primary key of another table using the primary key of that table.

A table can have multiple Foriegn keys to map multiple tables.

Composite key:
If the database uniquely identifies a row with more than one Foriegn key.

SQL is a hybrid language. combines 4 languages in one.
1.) Data Query Langauge (DQL)
2.) Data Definition Langauge (DDL)
3.) Data Control Langauge (DCL)
4.) Data Manipulation Langauge (DML)

Queries:
set of instriction given to db to get information you need.
Eg:SELECT employee.name,employee.age FROM employee WHERE employee.salary > 30000

user: root
password:sanjay@20896

